
Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. java is a programing language used to communitcate with software

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. The Runtime Interpreter - a stand-alone version of the Java interpreter built into the HotJava browser. The runtime
interpreter provides the support to run Java executable programs in compiled, bytecode format.
The Compiler - used to compile Java source code files into executable Java bytecode classes. In Java, source code
files have the extension .java.
The Debugger - Debugging is the routine process of locating and removing bugs, errors or abnormalities from programs

What is IDE?
A. Integrated Development Environment.. is a software application which enables users to more easily write and debug
Java programs.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Netbeans eclipse intellij bluej jDeveloper

Explain the entire java life cycle.

A new thread begins its life cycle in the new state. It remains in this state
until the program starts the thread. It is also referred to as a born thread.

Runnable − After a newly born thread is started, the thread becomes runnable. A thread in this state is considered to
be executing its task.

Waiting − Sometimes, a thread transitions to the waiting state while the thread waits for another thread to perform
a task. Thread transitions back to the runnable state only when another thread signals the waiting thread to
continue executing.

Timed Waiting − A runnable thread can enter the timed waiting state for a specified interval of time. A thread in this
state transitions back to the runnable state when that time interval expires or when the event it is waiting for occurs.

Terminated (Dead) − A runnable thread enters the terminated state when it completes its task or otherwise terminates.
what is class? A class can be defined as a template/blueprint that describes the behavior/state that the object of its
type support.

What is object?
A. Java object is a combination of data and procedures working on the available data,objects are created and have states
 and behaviors.

What is the entry point of an application?
A. The main method is the entry point of a Java application

Why main is static?
A. This is neccesary because main() is called by the JVM before any objects are made. Since it is static it can be
directly invoked via the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. java.lang.Object is a super class of any class by default.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables.
   Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A.  Main difference is methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot have implementations.
    A Java abstract class can have instance methods that implements a default behavior.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. no

what is Access Specifier?
A.  Access modifiers (or access specifiers) are keywords in object-oriented languages that set the
    accessibility of classes, methods, and other members.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A.  A package is a namespace that organizes a set of related
    classes and interfaces.
    Java.lang is default

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. Application programing interface
    eclipse and intellij

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. Multiple inheritance is basically not allowed in Java
    A class can implement any number of interfaces but can extend only one class. Multiple inheritance
    is not supported because it leads to deadly diamond problem

What is method overloading and when it happens?
    Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name,
    if their argument lists are different. It is similar to constructor overloading in Java, that allows a class to
    have more than one constructor having different argument lists.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. The static keyword in Java is used for memory management mainly. We can apply java static keyword with variables,
    methods, blocks and nested class. The static keyword belongs to the class than an instance of the class

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class.
    final keyword is used in different
    contexts. First of all, final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class.Following
    are different contexts where final is used. When a variable is declared with final keyword, its value can't be
    modified, essentially, a constant.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed.
    Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
    Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor?
A.  A constructor in Java is a block of code similar to a method that's called when an instance of an object is created.


Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
    Yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
    the default constructor is called

What is "this" keyword in java ?
    This is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object. ... It can be
    used to refer instance variable of current class. It can be used to invoke or initiate current class constructor.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
    The super keyword in java is a reference variable
    that is used to refer parent class objects. Super can be used with method and constructors.

What is JVM stand for ?
    java virtual machine

Is JVM platform independent?
    it is multi platform /universal

What version of java are you using?
    java version "11.0.1" 2018-10-16 LTS
    Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment 18.9 (build 11.0.1+13-LTS)
    Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.1+13-LTS, mixed mode)

What is JAR stand for ?
    Java archive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
    JVM is Java Virtual Machine, the JVM actually runs Java bytecode.
    JDK is Java Developer Kit, the JDK is what you need to compile Java source code

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
    JDK is a superset of JRE, and contains everything that is in JRE, plus
tools such as the compilers and debuggers necessary for developing applets and applications. JRE provides the
libraries, the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), and other components to run applets and applications written in the Java
programming language.

What is compile time and run time?
    compile time is howe long ti takes compiler to co,pile code and runtime is how long
it takes to run the code

What is heap?
    It is a space allocate in the Ram

How java manage it's memory?
    The JVM loads the code, verifies the code, executes the code, manages memory this includes
allocating memory from the Operating System, managing Java allocation including heap compaction and removal of garbage
objects and finally provides the runtime environment.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
       String is immutable once created can not be changed object.
StringBuffer
StringBuffer is mutable means one can change the value of the object
StringBuilder
StringBuilder is same as the StringBuffer , that is it stores the object in heap and it can also
be modified . The main difference between the StringBuffer and StringBuilder is
that StringBuilder is also not thread safe.
StringBuilder is fast as it is not thread safe.

What is Singleton class?
    a singleton class is a class that can have only one object

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
    Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
    Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

when to use transient variable in java?
    The Java transient keyword is used on class attributes/variables to indicate
that serialization process of such class should ignore such variables while creating a persistent byte stream for any
instance of that class
Difference between while and do..while loop?
    The most important difference between while and do-while loop is that in do-while , the block of code is executed
    at least once, even though the condition given is false. To put it in a different way. In While loop, the condition
    is first tested and then the block of code is executed if the test result is true.

What is Enum?
    A data type consisting of a set of named values called elements, members, enumeral, or enumerators of the
type. The enumerator names are usually identifiers that behave as constants in the language.

What is Iterator?
    The primary purpose of an iterator is to allow a user to process every element of a container while
isolating the user from the internal structure of the container.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
    integer

Why is String Immutable in Java?
    The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool

What is constructor chaining in Java?
    Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another
constructor with respect to current object

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
    A serial collector is a default copying collector which
uses only one GC thread for the GC operation, while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation.
garbage collector collects garbage after executing program.

What is JIT stands for?
    JIT stands for Just In time compilation.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
    The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease
in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected. During the garbage collection
objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
    Garbage collection can be guarenteed at the end of the program life cycle.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
    Stack is used for static memory allocation and Heap for dynamic
memory allocation, both stored in the computer's RAM.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
    Reflection in Java is the ability to examine and/or modify the properties or behavior of an object at
    run-time. Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, fields and methods at runtime, without knowing the
    names of the classes, methods etc. at compile time.

what is multithreading in java?
    Multithreading is to provide simultaneous execution of two or more parts of a program to maximum
    utilize the CPU time.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
    Synchronization in Java guarantees that no two threads can execute a synchronized method which requires the
    same lock simultaneously or concurrently.

What is Framework?
    Frameworks are large bodies of prewritten code to which you add your own code to solve a problem
in a specific domain

What are the testing Framework available in java? j
    unit, rest assured selenium testng

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
    TestNG supports parallel testing, while JUnit does not have such a feature.
    The process of parameterized test configuration in TestNG is easier than in JUnit (it requires more time and effort).
    JUnit does not support group test, while in TestNG, the specialists are able to administrate certain tests to a
    large group of people at the same time.
    TestNG supports the dependency tests with the help of such attributes – dependsOnMethods or dependsOnGroup.
    JUnit does not support this function.
    JUnit is not able to support special annotations that TestNG can.

What are the dependencies for this project?
   java json, javax-json, mongo JD, mysql testng

what is dependency injection in java?
    dependency injection is a technique whereby one object or static method supplies
the dependencies of another object.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
    Static binding in Java occurs during compile time while dynamic binding
occurs during runtime.